
This file is to describe the directory structure and software
architecture.  The implementation is split into two major parts.  In
ANSI-c, lib6lowpan provides generic functionality necessary for
unpacking 6lowpan packets and dealing with fragmentation.  In nesC,
there is mote code which interacts with the radio on the motes, and
presents an IP interface to other applications running there.


support/sdk/c/lib6lowpan
  - implementation of 6lowpan header parser, fragmentation and
        reassembly helper functions.
support/sdk/c/lib6lowpan/tunnel
  - a c driver and router for adding an IPv6 over 802.15.4 interface to a linux
        machine, using the /dev/net/tun device.  The driver maintains
        topology within the PAN based on reports from motes, and uses
        this to provide source routes to motes more then one hop from
        the router station.

tos/lib/net/b6lowpan
  - home for the mote-side code
 IPDispatchC
     - root IP component, providing (level 2.5) fragmentation and
        reassembly, forwarding engine, and bare IP send and receive
        interfaces.
 IPRoutingP
     - Routing component maintains default root to a base router.
 ICMPResponderP
     - Provides ICMP functionality: router solicitations and
        advertisements, and replying to ECHO requests.
 UDPC
     - A UDP wrapper on top of the bare IP functionality provided by
        IPDispatchC.  This is the component applications should
        include to send UDP packets.

tos/chips/cc2420/
  - provides a radio components which no active message dispatch field.

apps/IPBaseStation
  - A simple serial-to-radio bridge based on T2's BaseStation.  Add
        ack's and retries, and new radio component eliminating the
        active message field.  Also transmits the 802.15.4 headers
        over UART instead of the old version which switches to a
        different header format over serial.

apps/UDPEcho/
  - Provides a UDP echo service on port 7 and will respond to pings.


To see how to send a packet, or re-use one on a receive, look at
UDPEchoP, which does both.


